So with the items generated dynamically, let's make sure that when we do add an expense, we also clear
the input and let's make the clear button work. For this,
I will add a brand new function up there where I create a new constant which I'll name clear and this
will be a function,
so I store a function in this clear constant to be precise where I reach out to my reason input and
set the value equal to an empty string and the same for any amount input
and that basically clears them right, this removes any input the user entered. This clear function should
now be called here after we appended our item, so we can just call clear here
and this refers to this clear function now. I also want to do that when I click the cancel button,
so I will therefore add my cancel button event listener down there for a click event
and when this button gets pressed, I can just point at clear like this, without parentheses because
I don't want to execute it immediately,
instead I'll just pass a reference to this function, to the event listener, so that this will be executed
dynamically when this click occurs, it will execute this function for me then.
So with that if we reload and I enter food 12.99 and I clear, this is removed and you also
see that these items, the labels float back in, if I add an expense, this is also cleared
but of course the expense is also added.
Now last but not least, let's make sure we show some sun, some total expense at the bottom and for this
back in the HTML code,
we can add a new ion-row here with a new ion-column and show our sum there. For example by simply adding
a paragraph where we write total expenses and then here, I have a span which I'll use as a hook to render
my total expenses in. So I'll give this as an ID of total expenses so that I can easily get access to that
from within my Javascript code
and with that ID added on that span, we can get access to the total expenses output element or whatever
you want to call it here with query selector total expenses, like that. So this total expenses output
should now be updated with every item we add and therefore, I will add a new variable up there with let
total expenses which starts at 0 because initially we have no expenses. With every item we add here, I
can set total expenses equal to the old value with the plus equals sign shortcut, to the old value plus
the amount, the entered amount and I will add a plus in front of that to convert this string which it
is by default, any value you fetch from my input element is a string to a number and then this gets added
to the total expenses we had before. This updates the total expenses, after updating them, I can set
my total expenses output text content equal to total expenses here, so that this is not only stored in
memory in Javascript but also written to the DOM.
So with that if we reload and I add food again with 12.99 and I also was in the cinema
for 8.99, then we see our total expenses here at the bottom.
Now this styling can be improved though, especially on bigger screens.